[MUSIC]
So far we have designed a two
approximation algorithm when
every item has its size
equal to its value.
Now we want to do
something better than two.
For that, we're going to study a special,
special case.
A special case of the special case,
a very special, special case.
All items have size equal
to their value and,
in addition, there's one more assumption.
What is it?
The items have a value
which is a small integer.
And the capacity of the knapsack is also
a small integer, small with a small mean.
Small means polynomial, polynomial in n.
So, let's say that all items
have value between 1 and B,
an integer value,
size equal to their value.
And the capacity B is a small integer.
For that special, special case,
I will now give you an optimal solution.
This problem is no longer it's
possible to solve it optimally.
Let's see how.
The technique is a bit classic technique
of algorithms, dynamic programming.
Dynamic programming,
let's design a dynamic program for
this special, special case.
We have items already In the knapsack.
Given the items already there,
we want to add more stuff to the knapsack.
We want to decide what to add.
So what is the question?
Dynamic programming is defined using
an interface that relates what we have
decided to do in the past to what
we will decide to do in the future.
Given a partial solution for
the first I items,
what do we need to remember in order
to complete the solution optimally?
If we have packed a certain subset on the
first items in a knapsack, what do we need
to remember about them In order to be able
to decide how to complete this optimally?
What to remember?
We don't need to remember
the entire subset.
We don't need to remember exactly who
we chose to place in the knapsack.
The only thing that matters is let's
remember the total value so far.
Let's remember among the first i items,
what is the total
value of the subset that we
decided to place in a knapsack?
This leads us to define an array
indexed by i for the first i items and
v for the value achieved so far.
For the first i items, for
a given value v, let's store
in an array the information of
whether there exists of a subset
of the first i items whose
sum is equal to exactly v.
v is what?
It's any integer between 1, 0, and v.
This defines our array, one of the key
components of a dynamic program.
Now the next step in designing this
dynamic program is to have some
recursive formula,
some formula that tells us how to compute,
how to calculate, A of i, v.
A of i,
v is whether value v can be achieved
with some subset of the first i items.
What is the condition?
When is value v achievable with
a subset of a first i items?
v is achievable if and
only if, if and only if what?
It depends.
It depends, let's see.
Is the ith item, is it in a subset or not?
Maybe, maybe not.
That's two possibilities, two.
Let's look at the two possibilities.
If item i is not in a subset,
then we need to figure out
whether value v can be
achieved using a subset
of the first i-1 items.
This is an information that should be
in the entry A of v and i-1.
Second case,
imagine that a subset contains item i.
Well of course,
this can only happen if v i,
the value of item i,
is at most v, our goal value.
And then, what?
Then, item i goes in the subset.
And then what we need to figure out is
whether with some subset of the other i-1
items it's possible to
add up to a value v- vi.
So now we can express this algebraically.
A[i,v] is whether value v is achievable
with a subset of the first i items.
We have the formula A of i, v is a boolean
function, which is equal to either or.
It's true if A of i -1, v is true.
We can already achieve value
v with the first i -1 items.
Or v is greater than or equal to vi,
and A[i-1, v-vi] is true.
This is our recursive formula to enable
us to calculate the value of A[i,v].
Now we only have to decide in
which order to fill the table.
And that is easy, order of increasing i.
So that leads us to our
dynamic programming algorithm.
There's some initialization which
I will skip, I will not detail it.
Then, for every i,
we go through every v in term.
Every value v, from 0 to vi -1, and
we copy A[i-1,v] in A[i,v].
We consider all the remaining values of v,
from vi to B.
And for them we have the or of two things,
entry i -1, v and entry i-1, v- vi.
Once we have done these for loops,
we have filled the table A entirely.
And what will be the result?
The result will be for i equal to n,
when we look at all n items,
the maximum value v among
all these between 1 and
v, such that there exists
a subset summing to v.
The maximum v such that A of nv is true,
that gives us
the exact optimal solution of the knapsack
problem in this special, special case.
What is the run time of this algorithm?
Well, it's basically big O of n times B,
because of the two for loops.
So what have we done so far?
We have designed an optimal algorithm for
this special, special case.
When every item has size equal to value,
the max capacity of the knapsack
B is a small integer.
And every size, and therefore value,
is an integer between 1 and B.
In that case we have an optimal
algorithm with runtime big O of nB,
by dynamic programming.
In the next section we will
study how to extend this
algorithm to less special cases.
We will try to get away from the special,
special case and design an approximation
that works for more extended
cases of the knapsack problem.